DOCS-8052-jms-studio-configuration-kt (#1353)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: jms/1.7/modules/ROOT/pages/jms-studio-configuration.adoc

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add Anypoint Connector for JMS (JMS Connector) to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and to add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In the *Add Dependencies to Project* window, type `jms` in the search field.
. Click *JMS Connector* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.

> You can configure one of these input sources to use with Database Connector:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure one of these input sources to use with JMS Connector:
```

* *JMS > On New Message* +
Initiates a flow by listening for incoming messages
* *HTTP > Listener* +
Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* *Scheduler* +
Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure an *On New Message* source, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *JMS > On New Message*.
. Drag *On New Message* to the Studio canvas.
. In the *On New Message* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the source in the app.
. In the *JMS Config* window, for *Connection* select any of the connection types to provide to this configuration:

* *Active MQ Connection*
* *Generic Connection*

[start=6]

> . On the *General* tab, specify the connection information for the connector, such as required libraries for the broker, JMS specification, cache strategy, authentication, connection factory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *General* tab, specify the connection information for the connector, such as required libraries for the broker, JMS specification, cache strategy, authentication, and connection factory.
```

> . On the *TLS/SSL* tab, optionally specify TLS configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *TLS/SSL* tab, optionally specify a TLS configuration.
```

> . On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection strategy, and XA connection pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify a reconnection strategy and XA connection pool.
```

. Click *OK* to close the window.

> . In the *On New Message* configuration screen, in *Destination*, specify the name of the destination from where to consume the message.

Reviewer: I questioned this before from the destination, so if this is right, obviously, don't change. It just seems strange. Usually you send things to a destination. But I suppose you can also receive from a destination.

. Configure other optional fields on the *On New Message* configuration screen.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for JMS Connector, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *JMS Connector* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas and to the right of the input source.

The following screenshot shows the JMS Connector operations in the Mule Palette view of Anypoint Studio:

.JMS Connector Operations
image::jms-operations.png[Select any of the JMS Connector Operations from the Mule Palette view on the right side of Anypoint Studio]

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

> When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. JMS Connector comes with a fine tuned set of default values, both for publishing and consuming messages. The only requirement is to configure which connection to use. You can define a global default behavior for all the operations associated to the configuration and then override each parameter only in the operations that require a custom behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. JMS Connector comes with a fine tuned set of default values, both for publishing and consuming messages. The only requirement is to configure which connection to use. You can define a global default behavior for all the operations associated with the configuration and then override each parameter in only the operations that require a custom behavior.
```

To configure the global element for JMS Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the operation in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. In the *JMS Config* window, for *Connection* select any of the connection types to provide to this configuration:

* *Active MQ Connection*
* *Generic Connection*

[start=4]

> . On the *General* tab, specify the connection information for the connector, such as required libraries for the broker, JMS specification, cache strategy, authentication, connection factory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *General* tab, specify the connection information for the connector, such as required libraries for the broker, JMS specification, cache strategy, authentication, and connection factory.
```

> . On the *TLS/SSL* tab, optionally specify TLS configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *TLS/SSL* tab, optionally specify a TLS configuration.
```

> . On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection strategy, and XA connection pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify a reconnection strategy and XA connection pool.
```

. On the *Consumer* tab, optionally define global default behavior configurations for all the *Consume* and *On New Message* operations you have in your flow.
. On the *Producer* tab, optionally define global default behavior configurations for all the *Publish* and *Publish consume* operations you have in your flow.
. Click *OK* to close the window.

The following screenshot shows the JMS Connector *Global Element Configuration* window in Anypoint Studio:

.JMS Connector Global Element Configuration
image::jms-global-configuration.png[JMS Connector Global Element Configuration window]

In the XML editor, the `<jms:config>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:config name="JMS_Config">
  <jms:active-mq-connection clientId="${env.clientId}"/>
</jms:config>
----

> In the following example, you define a default *Selector* behavior when consuming a message in any of the *Consume* or *On New Message* operations associated to this configuration, while every *Publish* or *Publish consume* operations produce the outgoing message with a *Time to live* (TTL) of 60 seconds:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, you define a default *Selector* behavior when consuming a message in any of the *Consume* or *On New Message* operations associated with this configuration, while every *Publish* or *Publish consume* operation produces the outgoing message with a *Time to live* (TTL) of 60 seconds:
```

. Select the operation in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.

> . In the *JMS Config* window, for *Connection* select *Active MQ Connection*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *JMS Config* window, for *Connection*, select *Active MQ Connection*.
```

> . In the *Consumer* tab, set the *Selector* field to `JMSType = `INVOICE` to filter incoming messages as invoice.

Reviewer: Is invoice a type? `invoice`?

.JMS Connector Consumer Global Configuration
image::jms-global-configuration-consumer.png[In the Consumer tab, set the Selector field to filter incoming messages as invoice.]

[start=5]

> . In the *Producer* tab, set the *Time to live* field to `60000` that defines the default time the message is in the broker before it expires and is discarded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Producer* tab, set the *Time to live* field to `60000` to define the default time the message is in the broker before it expires and is discarded.
```

.JMS Connector Producer Global Configuration
image::jms-global-configuration-producer.png[In the Producer tab, set the Time to live field to define the default time the message is in the broker.]

> In the XML editor, the `<jms:config>`,`selector` and `timeToLive` parameters configuration looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the XML editor, the `<jms:config>`,`selector`, and `timeToLive` parameters' configuration looks like this:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:config name="JMS_Config">
  <jms:active-mq-connection/>
  <jms:consumer-config selector="JMSType = `INVOICE`"/>
  <jms:producer-config timeToLive="60000"/>
</jms:config>
----

> These properties can be overridden at operation level when required. In the following example, you need to publish a message with a shorter TTL. To override the value of the *Time to live* field set on the global element follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These properties can be overridden at the operation level when required. In the following example, you need to publish a message with a shorter TTL. To override the value of the *Time to live* field set on the global element follow these steps:
```

. In Studio, select the *Publish* operation from your flow.
. In the *Publish* configuration screen, scroll down to the *Publish Configuration* section.
. Set the *Time to live* field to `10000` to override the default global configuration previously set.

.JMS Connector Publish Configuration Override
image::jms-publish-configuration-1.png[In the Publish Configuration section, set the Time to Live field to override the default global configuration previously set.]

> In the XML editor, the `<jms:publish>` and `timeToLive` parameters configuration looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the XML editor, the `<jms:publish>` and `timeToLive` parameters' configuration looks like this:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:publish config-ref="JMS_Config" timeToLive="10000"/>
----

[[configure-connection]]
== Configure the Connection to a Broker

> To configure the connection in the global element, define the connection by either selecting *ActiveMQ Connection* or *Generic Connection*, set up the connection libraries and the JMS specification. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the connection in the global element, define the connection by selecting either *ActiveMQ Connection* or *Generic Connection*, to set up the connection libraries and the JMS specification. +
```

> JMS Connector also enables you to provide credentials if you require an authenticated connection, and also to configure connections caching to increase the performance of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JMS Connector enables you to provide credentials if you require an authenticated connection, and also to configure connections caching to increase the performance of the application.
```

=== Configure an Active MQ Connection

> JMS Connector supports ActiveMQ 5 by using the *ActiveMQ Connection*. With this connection, you can use both `JMS_1_1 (Default)` or `JMS_1_0_2b` specifications, and configure all the general connection parameters for JMS, as well as the custom parameters only present in ActiveMQ.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JMS Connector supports ActiveMQ 5 by using the *ActiveMQ Connection*. With this connection, you can use both `JMS_1_1 (Default)` and `JMS_1_0_2b` specifications, and configure all the general connection parameters for JMS, as well as the custom parameters only present in ActiveMQ.
```

> Once you declare the ActiveMQ connection, set up the *Connection Factory* with your custom configuration. Every parameter in the connection comes with a default value, meaning that you are required to configure only the parameters relevant for your use case. Also, the ActiveMQ connection exposes parameters that are exclusive of the ActiveMQ implementation, like *Initial redelivery delay*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you declare the ActiveMQ connection, set up the *Connection Factory* with your custom configuration. Every parameter in the connection comes with a default value, meaning that you are required to configure only the parameters relevant for your use case. Also, the ActiveMQ connection exposes parameters that are exclusive to the ActiveMQ implementation, like *Initial redelivery delay*.
```

> In the following example you configure an *ActiveMQ Connection*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, you configure an *ActiveMQ Connection*:
```

. In Studio, navigate to the *Global Elements* tab.
. Click *Create*.
. In the filter box type `jms`, and select *JMS Config*.
. Click *OK*.
. In the *Connection* field select *ActiveMQ Connection*.
. In the *Factory configuration* field select *Edit Inline*.

> . Set the *Broker url* field to address of the broker to connect, for example `tcp://localhost:61616`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the *Broker url* field value to the address of the broker to connect to, for example `tcp://localhost:61616`.
```

. Click *OK*.

.JMS Connector ActiveMQ Configuration
image::jms-activemq-configuration.png[ActiveMQ Connection Configuration.]

In the XML editor, the `<jms:active-mq-connection>` and `<jms:factory-configuration>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
 <jms:config name="JMS_Config">
  <jms:active-mq-connection >
   <jms:factory-configuration brokerUrl="tcp://localhost:61616" />
  </jms:active-mq-connection>
 </jms:config>
----

=== Configure a Generic Connection

Use the *Generic Connection* to configure a connection to any broker implementation. JMS Connector provides a JNDI (Java Naming and Directory Interface) based connection factory builder that enables you to configure the connection using JNDI in the context of the application.

In the following example, you configure a *Generic Connection* to Artemis to use the `JMS_2_0` specification:

. In Studio, navigate to the *Global Elements* tab.
. Click *Create*.

> . In the filter box type `jms`, and select *JMS Config*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the filter box, type `jms`, and select *JMS Config*.
```

. Click *OK*.

> . In the *Connection* field select *Generic Connection*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Connection* field, select *Generic Connection*.
```

> . In the *Specification* field select *JMS_2_0*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Specification* field, select *JMS_2_0*.
```

> . In the *Connection factory* field select *Edit inline*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Connection factory* field, select *Edit inline*.
```

. Set the *Connection factory jndi name* field to `ConnectionFactory`.

> . In the *Lookup destination* field select any of the following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Lookup destination* field, select any of the following options:
```

+

> * *NEVER* +

Reviewer: Even though the way you have this list formatted looks way better in the output and is correct, Kim will complain and tell you to put the + on the next line.

 No lookup is done and the destinations are created using the existing JMS session.
* *TRY_ALWAYS* +

> Tries to find the destination using JNDI, and in case it doesn't exist, create the destination using the current JMS session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tries to find the destination using JNDI, and in case it doesn't exist, creates the destination using the current JMS session.
```

* *ALWAYS* +

> If a queue or topic cannot be found via JNDI, fails with a `JMS:DESTINATION_NOT_FOUND` error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a queue or topic cannot be found via JNDI, the lookup fails with a `JMS:DESTINATION_NOT_FOUND` error.
```

In the XML editor, the `<jms:generic-connection>` and `<jms:jndi-connection-factory>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:config name="JMS_Config">
    <jms:generic-connection specification="JMS_2_0">
        <jms:connection-factory>
            <jms:jndi-connection-factory connectionFactoryJndiName="ConnectionFactory" lookupDestination="ALWAYS">
                <jms:name-resolver-builder
                        jndiInitialContextFactory="org.apache.activemq.artemis.ActiveMQInitialContextFactory"
                        jndiProviderUrl="tcp://localhost:61616?broker.persistent=false&amp;broker.useJmx=false">
                    <jms:provider-properties>
                        <jms:provider-property key="queue.jndi-queue-in" value="in.queue"/>
                        <jms:provider-property key="topic.jndi-topic-in" value="in.topic"/>
                    </jms:provider-properties>
                </jms:name-resolver-builder>
            </jms:jndi-connection-factory>
        </jms:connection-factory>
    </jms:generic-connection>
</jms:config>
----

=== Configure the Connection Libraries

> When you are configuring any connection type, you must always configure a library containing the JMS client implementation since JMS Connector is not bound to any particular implementation. There are ActiveMQ external libraries and generic external libraries that you can configure in the global elements view of Studio or manually adding the library dependency in your `pom.xml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you are configuring any connection type, you must always configure a library containing the JMS client implementation since JMS Connector is not bound to any particular implementation. There are ActiveMQ external libraries and generic external libraries that you can configure in the global elements view of Studio or by manually adding the library dependency in your `pom.xml` file.
```

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.activemq</groupId>
    <artifactId>activemq-kahadb-store</artifactId>
    <version>5.14.4</version>
</dependency>
----

* *ActiveMQ Broker* +
The `activemq-broker` dependency is required only when using an in-memory broker based on the VM transport (which is the one configured by default). This dependency provides a valid `org.apache.activemq.broker.Broker` implementation.
+
In your `pom.xml` file in Studio, adding the dependency looks as follows:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.activemq</groupId>
    <artifactId>activemq-broker</artifactId>
    <version>5.14.4</version>
</dependency>
----

* *ActiveMQ Client* +
The `activemq-client` of your choice that provides a valid `org.apache.activemq.ActiveMQConnectionFactory` implementation.
+
WARNING: This dependency is always required.
+

In your `pom.xml` file in Studio, adding the dependency looks as follows:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
     <groupId>org.apache.activemq</groupId>
     <artifactId>activemq-client</artifactId>
     <version>5.14.4</version>
 </dependency>
----

> To configure these libraries in the global element view follow these steps:

Reviewer: Is it Global Element view?

. In Studio, navigate to the *Global Elements* tab.
. Click *Create*.

> . In the filter box type `jms`, and select *JMS Config*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the filter box, type `jms` and select *JMS Config*.
```

. Click *OK*.

> . In the *Connection* field select *ActiveMQ Connection*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Connection* field, select *ActiveMQ Connection*.
```

. In the *Required Libraries* section, that shows the *ActiveMQ KahaDB*, *ActiveMQ Broker* and *ActiveMQ Client* libraries, click the *Configure...* button to install the dependency.
. Select any of the install options:
* *Add recommended library* +
Installs the recommended library.
* *Use local file* +

> Browse a local file for the required engine library and install it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Browse to a local file for the required engine library and install it.
```

* *Add Maven dependency* +

> Browse the dependency and install it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Browse to the dependency and install it.
```

==== Generic External Libraries

> For a *Generic Connection*, provide all the libraries that your connection factory of your implementation requires. Be careful of adding all the dependencies to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a *Generic Connection*, provide all the libraries that the connection factory of your implementation requires. Ensure that you add all the required dependencies to the application.
```

> In the following example, you configure a generic library for a connection that uses JMS 2.0 specification. Thereby, you need a generic connection with a different client library, like Apache Artemis:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, you configure a generic library for a connection that uses a JMS 2.0 specification, which requires a generic connection with a different client library, like Apache Artemis:
```

In your `pom.xml` file in Studio, adding the dependency looks as follows:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.activemq</groupId>
    <artifactId>artemis-jms-client-all</artifactId>
    <version>2.17.0</version>
</dependency>
----

> To configure these libraries in the global element view follow these steps:

Reviewer: I think it's Global Element view

. In Studio, navigate to the *Global Elements* tab.
. Click *Create*.

> . In the filter box type `jms`, and select *JMS Config*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the filter box, type `jms` and select *JMS Config*.
```

. Click *OK*.

> . In the *Connection* field select *Generic Connection*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Connection* field, select *Generic Connection*.
```

> . In the *Required Libraries* section, that shows the *JMS Client* click the *Configure...* button to install the dependency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Required Libraries* section that shows the *JMS Client*, click the *Configure...* button to install the dependency.
```

. Select any of the install options:
* *Add recommended library* +
Installs the recommended library.
* *Use local file* +

> Browse a local file for the required engine library and install it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Browse to a local file for the required engine library and install it.
```

* *Add Maven dependency* +

> Browse the dependency and install it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Browse to the dependency and install it.
```

=== Configure the JMS Specification

> The JMS *Specification* you configure must be supported by the broker implementation associated to the connection, otherwise the connection fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JMS *Specification* you configure must be supported by the broker implementation associated with the connection, otherwise the connection fails.
```

> Note that features available only in JMS `JMS_2_0` won't work with any other specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that features that are available only in JMS `JMS_2_0` won't work with any other specification.
```

To configure the JMS specification in Studio, follow these steps:

. In Studio, open the *JMS Config* global element window.
. In the *Specification* field select one of the following supported specifications:
* *JMS_1_1 (Default)*
* *JMS_1_0_2b*
* *JMS_2_0*
. Click *OK*.

.JMS Connector specification configuration
image::jms-spec-config.png[In the Specification field select one of the supported specifications]

In the XML editor, the `specification` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:config name="JMS_Config" >
		<jms:active-mq-connection specification="JMS_1_0_2b" />
	</jms:config>
----

=== Configure Connections Caching

> To connect with a broker and execute the required operations, the JMS Connector creates multiple sessions, consumers and producers that can be cached and reused in order to increase the performance of the application. Because of this capability, the JMS Connector enables you to configure the *Caching strategy* field to use when creating new connections, caching by default both consumers and producers and preserving as many instances as possible in memory at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect with a broker and execute the required operations, the JMS Connector creates multiple sessions of consumers and producers that can be cached and reused in order to increase the performance of the application. JMS Connector enables you to configure the *Caching strategy* field to use when creating new connections. By default, both consumers and producers are cached and as many instances as possible are preserved in memory concurrently.
```

> Disabling the sessions cache using the *No caching* configuration is greatly discouraged and is meant to be used in cases where a custom connection factory is used that already manages it's own cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is best not to disable the sessions cache by using the *No caching* configuration, which is meant to be used only when a custom connection factory is used that already manages its own cache.
```

In the following example you configure the caching strategy:

. In Studio, open the *JMS Config* global element window.

> . In the *Caching strategy* field select either *Default caching (Default)* or *No caching*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Caching strategy* field, select either *Default caching (Default)* or *No caching*.
```

. Set the *Session cache size* field to `100`.
. Select *Cache producers*
. Click *OK*

.JMS Connector caching strategy configuration
image::jms-caching-config.png[In the Caching strategy field select the desired caching strategy]

In the XML editor, the `<jms:caching-strategy>` and `<default-caching>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:config name="JMS_Config">
  <jms:active-mq-connection>
    <jms:caching-strategy>
      <jms:default-caching sessionCacheSize="100" consumersCache="false" producersCache="true"/>
    </jms:caching-strategy>
  </jms:active-mq-connection>
</jms:config>
----

In the following XML example, the `<jms:no-caching/>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:config name="JMS_Config">
  <jms:generic-connection connectionFactory="customConnectionFactory">
    <jms:caching-strategy>
        <jms:no-caching/>
    </jms:caching-strategy>
  </jms:generic-connection>
</jms:config>
----

=== Configure the Client Identifier and Credentials for Authentication

> The purpose of the client identifier is to associate a connection and its objects with a state maintained on behalf of the client by a provider, and it is mandatory for identifying an unshared durable subscription. Note that the client state identified in the *Client id* can be in use by only one connection at a time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of the client identifier is to associate a connection and its objects with a state that is maintained on behalf of the client by a provider, and it is mandatory for identifying an unshared durable subscription. Note that the client state identified in the *Client id* can be used by only one connection at a time.
```

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add Anypoint Connector for JMS (JMS Connector) to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and to add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In the *Add Dependencies to Project* window, type `jms` in the search field.
. Click *JMS Connector* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these input sources to use with JMS Connector:

> * *JMS > On New Message* +
> Initiates a flow by listening for incoming messages
> * *HTTP > Listener* +
> Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
> * *Scheduler* +
> Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

Reviewer 2: Because these are short...:
```suggestion
* *JMS > On New Message*: Initiates a flow by listening for incoming messages
* *HTTP > Listener*: Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* *Scheduler*: Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met
```
Otherwise, list items require a blank line and new para for descriptions, or use of a Definition List. GLOBAL.

For example, to configure an *On New Message* source, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *JMS > On New Message*.
. Drag *On New Message* to the Studio canvas.
. In the *On New Message* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the source in the app.

> . In the *JMS Config* window, for *Connection* select any of the connection types to provide to this configuration:

Reviewer 2: any > either, if just two

Reviewer 2: See also Line 68, re. second comma:
```suggestion
. In the *JMS Config* window, for *Connection*, select any of the connection types to provide to this configuration:
```

* *Active MQ Connection*
* *Generic Connection*

[start=6]
. On the *General* tab, specify the connection information for the connector, such as required libraries for the broker, JMS specification, cache strategy, authentication, and connection factory.
. On the *TLS/SSL* tab, optionally specify a TLS configuration.

> . On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify a reconnection strategy, and XA connection pool.

Reviewer 2: No need for second comma.

. Click *OK* to close the window.
. In the *On New Message* configuration screen, in *Destination*, specify the name of the destination from where to consume the message.

> . Configure other optional fields on the *On New Message* configuration screen.

Reviewer 2: The previous step uses "in the screen" and this one uses "on the screen."

These kinds of prepositions are sort of subjective, but I lean toward "in the screen, like, taking action within the boundaries of the screen display, rather than "on the screen," like, on top of the screen or just viewing the screen.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for JMS Connector, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *JMS Connector* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas and to the right of the input source.

> 

Reviewer 2: "to the right of" is not accessible wording, but...we can only do what the UI enables us to do....

The following screenshot shows the JMS Connector operations in the Mule Palette view of Anypoint Studio:

.JMS Connector Operations
image::jms-operations.png[Select any of the JMS Connector Operations from the Mule Palette view on the right side of Anypoint Studio]

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

> When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. JMS Connector comes with a fine tuned set of default values, both for publishing and consuming messages. The only requirement is to configure which connection to use. You can define a global default behavior for all the operations associated with the configuration and then override each parameter in only the operations that require a custom behavior.

Reviewer 2: fine-tuned set   (compound adjective)

To configure the global element for JMS Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the operation in the Studio canvas.

> . In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.

Reviewer 2: Another instance of "in" the screen

> . In the *JMS Config* window, for *Connection* select any of the connection types to provide to this configuration:

Reviewer 2: Per previous punctuation, for consistency:
```suggestion
. In the *JMS Config* window, for *Connection*, select any of the connection types to provide to this configuration:
```

Reviewer 2: Also "any" > "either" for just two

. On the *Consumer* tab, optionally define global default behavior configurations for all the *Consume* and *On New Message* operations you have in your flow.
. On the *Producer* tab, optionally define global default behavior configurations for all the *Publish* and *Publish consume* operations you have in your flow.
. Click *OK* to close the window.

The following screenshot shows the JMS Connector *Global Element Configuration* window in Anypoint Studio:

.JMS Connector Global Element Configuration
image::jms-global-configuration.png[JMS Connector Global Element Configuration window]

In the XML editor, the `<jms:config>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:config name="JMS_Config">
  <jms:active-mq-connection clientId="${env.clientId}"/>
</jms:config>
----

In the following example, you define a default *Selector* behavior when consuming a message in any of the *Consume* or *On New Message* operations associated with this configuration, while every *Publish* or *Publish consume* operation produces the outgoing message with a *Time to live* (TTL) of 60 seconds:

. In Studio, navigate to the *Global Elements* tab.
. Click *Create*.

> . In the filter box type `jms`, and select *JMS Config*.

Reviewer 2: no comma

. Click *OK*.

> . In the *JMS Config* window, for *Connection* ,select *Active MQ Connection*.

Reviewer 2: misplacement of comma
```suggestion
. In the *JMS Config* window, for *Connection*, select *Active MQ Connection*.
```

> . In the *Consumer* tab, set the *Selector* field to `JMSType = `INVOICE` to filter incoming messages as invoice.

Reviewer 2: invoice > invoices?

.JMS Connector Consumer Global Configuration
image::jms-global-configuration-consumer.png[In the Consumer tab, set the Selector field to filter incoming messages as invoice.]

[start=5]
. In the *Producer* tab, set the *Time to live* field to `60000` to define the default time the message is in the broker before it expires and is discarded.

.JMS Connector Producer Global Configuration
image::jms-global-configuration-producer.png[In the Producer tab, set the Time to live field to define the default time the message is in the broker.]

> In the XML editor, the `<jms:config>`,`selector`, and `timeToLive` parameters' configuration looks like this:

Reviewer 2: You can use "parameter" as an adjective (parameter configurations) and avoid the apostrophe, which always seems to complicate matters, IMHO...:
```suggestion
In the XML editor, the `<jms:config>`,`selector`, and `timeToLive` parameter configurations look like this:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:config name="JMS_Config">
  <jms:active-mq-connection/>
  <jms:consumer-config selector="JMSType = `INVOICE`"/>
  <jms:producer-config timeToLive="60000"/>
</jms:config>
----

> These properties can be overridden at the operation level when required. In the following example, you need to publish a message with a shorter TTL. To override the value of the *Time to live* field set on the global element, follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: Reword first sentence to active voice? And to clarify:
```suggestion
You can override these properties at the operation level when required. For example, imagine that you want to shorten the TTL. To override the value of the *Time to live* field set on the global element, follow these steps:
```

Reviewer 2: Is this a permanent or temporary override...or does that even matter?
Hmm...I guess "override" would be temp and "change" would be perm?

. In Studio, select the *Publish* operation from your flow.
. In the *Publish* configuration screen, scroll down to the *Publish Configuration* section.
. Set the *Time to live* field to `10000` to override the default global configuration previously set.

.JMS Connector Publish Configuration Override
image::jms-publish-configuration-1.png[In the Publish Configuration section, set the Time to Live field to override the default global configuration previously set.]

> In the XML editor, the `<jms:publish>` and `timeToLive` parameters configuration looks like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the XML editor, the `<jms:publish>` and `timeToLive` parameter configurations look like this:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:publish config-ref="JMS_Config" timeToLive="10000"/>
----

[[configure-connection]]
== Configure the Connection to a Broker

> To configure the connection in the global element, define the connection by selecting either *ActiveMQ Connection* or *Generic Connection*, set up the connection libraries and the JMS specification. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure the connection in the global element, define the connection by selecting either *ActiveMQ Connection* or *Generic Connection* and set up the connection libraries and the JMS specification. +
```

> JMS Connector also enables you to provide credentials if you require an authenticated connection, and also to configure connections caching to increase the performance of the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JMS Connector also enables you to provide credentials, if you require an authenticated connection, and to configure connection caching to increase the performance of the application.
```

=== Configure an Active MQ Connection

> JMS Connector supports ActiveMQ 5 by using the *ActiveMQ Connection*. With this connection, you can use `JMS_1_1 (Default)` or `JMS_1_0_2b` specifications, and configure all the general connection parameters for JMS, as well as the custom parameters only present in ActiveMQ.

Reviewer 2: Added common noun to follow UI label name:
```suggestion
JMS Connector supports ActiveMQ 5 by using the *ActiveMQ Connection* setting. With this connection, you can use `JMS_1_1 (Default)` or `JMS_1_0_2b` specifications. You can also configure all the general connection parameters for JMS, as well as the custom parameters present only in ActiveMQ.
```

> Once you declare the ActiveMQ connection, set up the *Connection Factory* with your custom configuration. Every parameter in the connection comes with a default value, meaning that you are required to configure only the parameters relevant for your use case. Also, the ActiveMQ connection exposes parameters that are exclusive to the ActiveMQ implementation, like *Initial redelivery delay*.

Reviewer 2: GLOBALLY change "once" to "after," if that is what you mean instead of "one time."
This helps with translation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you declare the ActiveMQ connection, customize *Connection Factory* to your desired configuration. Every parameter in the connection comes with a default value, meaning that you are required to customize only the parameters relevant for your use case. Also, the ActiveMQ connection exposes parameters that are exclusive to the ActiveMQ implementation, like *Initial redelivery delay*.
```

In the following example, you configure an *ActiveMQ Connection*:

. In Studio, navigate to the *Global Elements* tab.
. Click *Create*.

> . In the filter box type `jms`, and select *JMS Config*.

Reviewer 2: Are both actions in the filter box? Maybe this should be two steps if not, just to clarify; otherwise, remove the period.

Reviewer 2: Comma after "filter box"

. Click *OK*.

> . In the *Connection* field select *ActiveMQ Connection*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *Connection* field, select *ActiveMQ Connection*.
```

> . In the *Factory configuration* field select *Edit Inline*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *Factory configuration* field, select *Edit Inline*.
```

> . Set the *Broker url* field value to the address of the broker to connect to, for example `tcp://localhost:61616`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Set the *Broker url* field value to the address of the broker to connect to, for example, `tcp://localhost:61616`.
```

. Click *OK*.

.JMS Connector ActiveMQ Configuration
image::jms-activemq-configuration.png[ActiveMQ Connection Configuration.]

In the XML editor, the `<jms:active-mq-connection>` and `<jms:factory-configuration>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
 <jms:config name="JMS_Config">
  <jms:active-mq-connection >
   <jms:factory-configuration brokerUrl="tcp://localhost:61616" />
  </jms:active-mq-connection>
 </jms:config>
----

> 

Reviewer 2: Break to commit.

Reviewer 2: Resume

=== Configure a Generic Connection

> Use the *Generic Connection* to configure a connection to any broker implementation. JMS Connector provides a JNDI (Java Naming and Directory Interface) based connection factory builder that enables you to configure the connection using JNDI in the context of the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use *Generic Connection* to configure a connection to any broker implementation. JMS Connector provides a JNDI-based (Java Naming and Directory Interface) connection factory builder that enables you to configure the connection using JNDI in the context of the application.
```

> In the following example, you configure a *Generic Connection* to Artemis to use the `JMS_2_0` specification usign JNDI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, you configure *Generic Connection* to Artemis to use the `JMS_2_0` specification using JNDI:
```

. In Studio, navigate to the *Global Elements* tab.
. Click *Create*.

> . In the filter box, type `jms`, and select *JMS Config*.

Reviewer 2: See Line 183 in previous .adoc.

. Click *OK*.
. In the *Connection* field, select *Generic Connection*.
. In the *Specification* field, select *JMS_2_0*.
. In the *Connection factory* field, select *Edit inline*.
. Set the *Connection factory jndi name* field to `ConnectionFactory`.
. In the *Lookup destination* field, select any of the following options:
+
* *NEVER*
+
 No lookup is done and the destinations are created using the existing JMS session.
* *TRY_ALWAYS*
+
Tries to find the destination using JNDI, and in case it doesn't exist, creates the destination using the current JMS session.
* *ALWAYS*
+
If a queue or topic cannot be found via JNDI, the lookup fails with a `JMS:DESTINATION_NOT_FOUND` error.
+
[start=10]
. Select the *Name resolver builder* field.
. Set the *Jdni initial context factory* field to `org.apache.activemq.artemis.ActiveMQInitialContextFactory`.
. Set the *Jdni provider url* field to `tcp://localhost:61616?broker.persistent=false&amp;broker.useJmx=false`.

> . Set the *Provider properties* to *Edit inline*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Set *Provider properties* to *Edit inline*.
```

. Click the plus sign (*+*) to add a new provider property.
. In the *Provider property* window, set the *Key* field to `queue.jndi-queue-in` and the *Value* field to `in.queue`.
. Click *Finish*.

> . Repeat step 14.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Repeat Step 14.
```

In the XML editor, the `<jms:generic-connection>` and `<jms:jndi-connection-factory>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:config name="JMS_Config">
    <jms:generic-connection specification="JMS_2_0">
        <jms:connection-factory>
            <jms:jndi-connection-factory connectionFactoryJndiName="ConnectionFactory" lookupDestination="ALWAYS">
                <jms:name-resolver-builder
                        jndiInitialContextFactory="org.apache.activemq.artemis.ActiveMQInitialContextFactory"
                        jndiProviderUrl="tcp://localhost:61616?broker.persistent=false&amp;broker.useJmx=false">
                    <jms:provider-properties>
                        <jms:provider-property key="queue.jndi-queue-in" value="in.queue"/>
                        <jms:provider-property key="topic.jndi-topic-in" value="in.topic"/>
                    </jms:provider-properties>
                </jms:name-resolver-builder>
            </jms:jndi-connection-factory>
        </jms:connection-factory>
    </jms:generic-connection>
</jms:config>
----

=== Configure the Connection Libraries

> When you are configuring any connection type, you must always configure a library containing the JMS client implementation since JMS Connector is not bound to any particular implementation. There are ActiveMQ external libraries and generic external libraries that you can configure in the global elements view of Studio or by manually adding the library dependency in your `pom.xml` file.

Reviewer 2: Try to stick with simple present tense. Also, GLOBALLY replace "since" with "because" if that is what you mean (instead of "after"): helps with translation.
```suggestion
When you configure any connection type, you must always configure a library containing the JMS client implementation, because JMS Connector is not bound to any particular implementation. You can configure ActiveMQ external libraries and generic external libraries found in the global elements view of Studio, or you can manually add the library dependency in your `pom.xml` file.
```

==== ActiveMQ External Libraries

> For an *ActiveMQ Connection*, there are three libraries that you can configure:

Reviewer 2: GLOBALLY avoid "there is" and "there are" pseudo-subjects, per style ref:
```suggestion
For an *ActiveMQ Connection*, you can configure three libraries:
```
"you can configure any of..."? "you can configure one of..."?

> * *ActiveMQ KahaDB* +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *ActiveMQ KahaDB* +
+
```

Reviewer 2: ...or use a definition list.

> The `activemq-kahadb-store` dependency is required only when using an persistent in-memory broker based on the VM transport (such as, `+vm://localhost?broker.persistent=true+`).  This dependency provides a valid `org.apache.activemq.store.kahadb.KahaDBPersistenceAdapter` implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `activemq-kahadb-store` dependency is required only when using an persistent in-memory broker based on the VM transport (such as `+vm://localhost?broker.persistent=true+`). This dependency provides a valid `org.apache.activemq.store.kahadb.KahaDBPersistenceAdapter` implementation.
```

+

> In your `pom.xml` file in Studio, adding the dependency looks as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your `pom.xml` file in Studio, adding the dependency looks like this:
```

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.activemq</groupId>
    <artifactId>activemq-kahadb-store</artifactId>
    <version>5.14.4</version>
</dependency>
----

> * *ActiveMQ Broker* +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *ActiveMQ Broker* +
+
```
....or definition list

The `activemq-broker` dependency is required only when using an in-memory broker based on the VM transport (which is the one configured by default). This dependency provides a valid `org.apache.activemq.broker.Broker` implementation.
+

> In your `pom.xml` file in Studio, adding the dependency looks as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your `pom.xml` file in Studio, adding the dependency looks like this:
```

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.activemq</groupId>
    <artifactId>activemq-broker</artifactId>
    <version>5.14.4</version>
</dependency>
----

> * *ActiveMQ Client* +

Reviewer 2: ditto

The `activemq-client` of your choice that provides a valid `org.apache.activemq.ActiveMQConnectionFactory` implementation.
+

> WARNING: This dependency is always required.

Reviewer 2: Do we need a warning notice for this? We could maybe use the established sentence pattern of the previous peer entries:
The `activemq-client` dependency is always required. Choose one that provides a valid `org.apache.activemq.ActiveMQConnectionFactory` implementation.
+

+

> In your `pom.xml` file in Studio, adding the dependency looks as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your `pom.xml` file in Studio, adding the dependency looks like this:
```

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
     <groupId>org.apache.activemq</groupId>
     <artifactId>activemq-client</artifactId>
     <version>5.14.4</version>
 </dependency>
----

> To configure these libraries in the Global Element view follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure these libraries in the Global Element view, follow these steps:
```
Is Global Element not a label?

. In Studio, navigate to the *Global Elements* tab.
. Click *Create*.

> . In the filter box, type `jms`, and select *JMS Config*.

Reviewer 2: ditto prev. edits

. Click *OK*.
. In the *Connection* field, select *ActiveMQ Connection*.
. In the *Required Libraries* section that shows the *ActiveMQ KahaDB*, *ActiveMQ Broker* and *ActiveMQ Client* libraries, click the *Configure...* button to install the dependency.
. Select any of the install options:
* *Add recommended library* +
Installs the recommended library.
* *Use local file* +
Browse to a local file for the required engine library and install it.
* *Add Maven dependency* +

> Browse to the dependency and install it.

Reviewer 2: Because these are short...:
```suggestion
* *Add recommended library*: Installs the recommended library.
* *Use local file*: Browse to a local file for the required engine library and install it.
* *Add Maven dependency*: Browse to the dependency and install it.
```

==== Generic External Libraries

> For a *Generic Connection*, provide all the libraries that your connection factory of your implementation requires. Ensure that you all the required dependencies to the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For *Generic Connection*, provide all the libraries that the connection factory of your implementation requires. Ensure that you supply all the required dependencies to the application.
```

In the following example, you configure a generic library for a connection that uses a JMS 2.0 specification, which requires a generic connection with a different client library, like Apache Artemis:

> In your `pom.xml` file in Studio, adding the dependency looks as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your `pom.xml` file in Studio, adding the dependency looks like this:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.activemq</groupId>
    <artifactId>artemis-jms-client-all</artifactId>
    <version>2.17.0</version>
</dependency>
----

> To configure these libraries in the Global Element view follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure these libraries in the Global Element view, follow these steps:
```
Again, not a label?

. In Studio, navigate to the *Global Elements* tab.
. Click *Create*.

> . In the filter box, type `jms`, and select *JMS Config*.

Reviewer 2: ditto

. Click *OK*.
. In the *Connection* field, select *Generic Connection*.
. In the *Required Libraries* section that shows the *JMS Client*, click the *Configure...* button to install the dependency.
. Select any of the install options:
* *Add recommended library* +
Installs the recommended library.
* *Use local file* +
Browse to a local file for the required engine library and install it.
* *Add Maven dependency* +

> Browse to the dependency and install it.

Reviewer 2: ditto

=== Configure the JMS Specification

> The JMS *Specification* you configure must be supported by the broker implementation associated with the connection, otherwise the connection fails.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The JMS *Specification* you configure must be supported by the broker implementation associated with the connection; otherwise, the connection fails.
```

Note that features that are available only in `JMS_2_0` won't work with any other specification.

To configure the JMS specification in Studio, follow these steps:

. In Studio, open the *JMS Config* global element window.

> . In the *Specification* field select one of the following supported specifications:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *Specification* field, select one of the following supported specifications:
```

* *JMS_1_1 (Default)*
* *JMS_1_0_2b*
* *JMS_2_0*
. Click *OK*.

.JMS Connector specification configuration
image::jms-spec-config.png[In the Specification field select one of the supported specifications]

In the XML editor, the `specification` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:config name="JMS_Config" >
		<jms:active-mq-connection specification="JMS_1_0_2b" />
	</jms:config>
----

> === Configure Connections Caching

Reviewer 2: The "thing" is the caching of connections: connection caching. You don't have to make it plural; "connection" is the type of caching, not the number.

> To connect with a broker and execute the required operations, the JMS Connector creates multiple sessions of consumers and producers that can be cached and reused in order to increase the performance of the application. JMS Connector enables you to configure the *Caching strategy* field to use when creating new connections. By default, both both consumers and producers are cached and as many instances are preserved as possible in memory concurrently.

Reviewer 2: Edit to reduce wordiness, add clarity:
```suggestion
To connect with a broker and execute required operations, JMS Connector creates multiple sessions of consumers and producers that can be cached and reused to increase application performance. JMS Connector enables you to configure the *Caching strategy* field to use when creating new connections. By default, both both consumers and producers are cached and as many concurrent instances as possible are cached in memory.
```

> It is best not disable the sessions cache by using the *No caching* configuration, which is meant to be used only when a custom connection factory is used that already manages its own cache.

Reviewer 2: Because we use "only," let's be more direct:
```suggestion
Do not disable the sessions cache by using the *No caching* configuration, which is used only with a custom connection factory that already manages its own cache.
```

In the following example you configure the caching strategy:

. In Studio, open the *JMS Config* global element window.

> . In the *Caching strategy* field, select either *Default caching (Default)* or *No caching*.

Reviewer 2: Should we offer them this option? Can we omit?

. Set the *Session cache size* field to `100`.

> . Select *Cache producers*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select *Cache producers*.
```

> . Click *OK*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click *OK*.
```

.JMS Connector caching strategy configuration
image::jms-caching-config.png[In the Caching strategy field select the desired caching strategy]

In the XML editor, the `<jms:caching-strategy>` and `<default-caching>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:config name="JMS_Config">
  <jms:active-mq-connection>
    <jms:caching-strategy>
      <jms:default-caching sessionCacheSize="100" consumersCache="false" producersCache="true"/>
    </jms:caching-strategy>
  </jms:active-mq-connection>
</jms:config>
----

In the following XML example, the `<jms:no-caching/>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:config name="JMS_Config">
  <jms:generic-connection connectionFactory="customConnectionFactory">
    <jms:caching-strategy>
        <jms:no-caching/>
    </jms:caching-strategy>
  </jms:generic-connection>
</jms:config>
----

=== Configure the Client Identifier and Credentials for Authentication

> The purpose of the client identifier is to associate a connection and its objects with a state that is maintained on behalf of the client by a provider, and it is mandatory for identifying an unshared durable subscription. Note that the client state identified in the *Client id* can be used by only one connection at a time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The client identifier associates a connection and its objects with a state that is maintained on behalf of the client by a provider. It is mandatory for identifying an unshared durable subscription. Note that the client state identified in *Client id* can be used by only one connection at a time.
```
